In the previous video, we already learn about sftp
in sublime.
So now we can edit python script from sublime, and when we save the file, the file will automatically saved on ubuntu server.
Next in this video, we are going to learn how to
install python package to do a network automation.
There are many python package that
we can use to do network automation.
But The simplest one is paramiko.
Let’s just see how we can install paramiko.
To install python package, first, we need to
have python package manager, which is pip.
So first, we need to install python pip. Let’s
update first, sudo apt update, type the password.
This is will be update to internet, so make
sure that you have internet connection.
Wait for a minute here.
Now let’s install the python pip, the
command is apt install python3-pip.
Here we can see all application
that will be installed,
this will use 200mega of harddrive. Yes
here and then enter. Wait for a minute.
Okay we have done installing pip. To
make sure, we can use pip –version.
Here we have pip version 20.0.2.
Okay now we have python package manager.
Next, We can see all python package that
already installed, using command pip3 freeze.
Here we can see many python package already
installed, but we don’t have paramiko yet.
To install paramiko, the command
is pip3 install paramiko.
Okay done, pip3 freeze again,
here we can see that now we have paramiko.
To make sure that paramiko is installed
correctly, we can go to python interpreter,
and then let’s try to import paramiko here.
Okay this is success. This is means that paramiko
is installed correctly. If the paramiko is
not installed we will get an error here.
Let’s try to import package that not
installed yet. Let’s say netmiko,
netmiko is also python package to do network
automation, but we don’t install netmiko yet.
Let’s try to import it, import netmiko
Here we get an error no module named netmiko.
Okay I think enough for this video
Thank you for watching and see you on the next video.